You are listening to radiolab radio from w?
N y. S. T. E. Yep.
Hey, I'm Jad Abumrad. I'm Molly Webster. This is radiolab. Uh,
Robert Krulwich will be back with us very soon, but today a story from you.
Well, I guess I was just thinking, probably tell you just the, um,
Morgan and I back story of how I heard about the story.
So Morgan and I went to Grad school together at NYU,
so I guess I've known her for almost 11 years and we're, we're,
we're holed up in my apartment. I don't know,
this was like last November or something. She comes over,
she's sitting on the giant [inaudible] big floor pillow,
like a Turkish floor pillow sitting, sitting on the floor pillow.
And then she is like, are you ready to hear the story? And I said, yeah.
And she's like, okay, I need you to take the battery out of your phone. Yeah.
And I was, and I was like, what? I have an iPhone,
I can't take the battery out of it. And she goes, okay,
I need you to power it down and put it in another room under a pillow.
What it was like, what is going on and shoot.
And then by this point she's taking the battery out of her phone. So I, I do it.
I put it in the, in my bedroom and I put it under pillows. I turned it off.
I came back, I sat down and then, um,
she starts telling me essentially about the ceremony,
about going to the launch of this new, uh, currency,
which involved her flying across the country to live in a hotel room for a
number of days with a bunch of strangers.
And then something happened because she came back, um, seemingly paranoid,
at least in so much as she was hiding
phones and your pillows. What was it that happened?
It takes a few steps. Okay. So we'll start with step one, which is,
hi, which is Morgan. I'm Morgan Peck.
How would you identify yourself professionally? Professionally,
I'm a freelance journalist and in my eyes Morgan has become like the historian
of the world of digital money. I started writing about neuroscience,
but quickly found out about bitcoin about a year into my writing 2011 and have
pretty much been writing about it ever since now. Yes. A lot of people,
when they hear about digital money, they think ransomware,
the hijackers held the files, ransom demand,
the roughly 650 euros paid in Bitcoin, bitcoin, the virtual currency.
Obviously it has become associated with cybercrime. But for Morgan, no,
no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
What attracted her to this whole world but made her go, oh my God,
this thing is amazing. She was like pulled in by the idealism of it.
There was an extremely active community of people who were talking about,
you know, um,
completely subverting the financial system at a time when the financial system
was not trusted and was collapsing because Morgan says the birth of Bitcoin goes
back to, well, remember 2008, boom.
Why does your work do the phone?
Say a lot of their customers are freaked out in 2008 was the big implosion.
What in the world is happening on wall streets in September?
The stock market's crashed, the banks failed.
Traders are standing there watching in amazement. I don't blame them.
There was the bail out, you know, this shakes your core,
this shakes your trust in American institutions.
And then just a few months later, 2009 January,
it's a hot topic on Wall Street right now. It's very interesting.
Digital money called Bitcoin, bitcoin, bitcoin,
I can't recall when showed up. Oh, so bitcoin was after the big collapse.
It was after and it was very much a response to that definitely because here was
this currency that was decentralized,
which means it's run and monitored by all the people who use it,
which means you don't need a Federal Reserve. So at the beginning,
a lot of people saw bitcoin as a way to sort of take the power back from the big
banks that had just everybody over libertarians were really into it.
They thought that it was going to crash,
that it was going to crumble. The columns of every power structure in,
you know, the world. Like obviously that didn't happen.
It did not take down the world. But bitcoin has not gone away.
It's been a decade. It's still around. But if you talk to people on the inside,
they'll tell you one of the things that has dogged bitcoin from the beginning is
this issue of privacy.
The way that the technology works is that, uh,
it tracks every single transaction that's ever made on the network.
Anytime anyone with a bitcoin buys a coffee or a pound of heroin,
that transaction is kept in something called the public ledger.
Bitcoin is a ledger public ledger. Is that something that each person has?
It's out there for anyone to see. Really? Yeah.
Every single transaction that's ever been done, any transaction ever is. Right.
That's not private at all. No,
but people thought it was private at the beginning because, oh,
we're using these pseudonyms. In other words, in the ledger,
you never see anyone's actual name. There are no names on in Bitcoin,
like I wouldn't be modeling. I'd be t nine, five, seven g.
The problem is that while there are no names attached,
the behavior is out there for anyone to see. Turns out,
it's really not that hard to match this like string of characters with the
person that it represents out in the real world.
You could just kind of Google it on the Internet,
see if it pops up anywhere else, what is associated with,
and then you kind of figure out who the person is and then you can go back into
the bitcoin ledger and search their entire history,
can figure out all their business dealings, all their personal dealings,
who they know, who don't know, possibly who their bank is. And you know,
people have tried to solve this problem with Bitcoin,
but there are companies now that actually specialize in doing the network
analysis of the Bitcoin blockchain. And they do it for companies who want to,
um, make sure that they're not transacting with, you know, criminals,
people who have had, they're clear, specific,
actively trying to de anonymize people. Oh yeah. Wow.
Ooh.
And so one of the puzzles that, uh,
all the Internet people think about is,
is there a way to get the best of both worlds?
Can you have the decentralization that comes with digital money?
But can you also get privacy on this? Like cash,
I take a dollar bill out of my pocket. I walked down the street,
I give it to someone they give to someone knowing can trace that money.
Can you get the decentralization that comes with digital money and can you wrap
that up with the privacy that you get with paper money?
And that question just suggesting brings us to this guy. Oh,
so go here to somebody named Zuko Wilcox of Zuko at. I'm in a different room.
Okay. He is our master of the ceremony, I have to say. You do.
Um, everyone's like pretty excited on talking to a guy named Zuko.
Like it's just a good name. Sukkot. Thanks. Yay.
Zuko so anyhow,
Zuko is,
he's been working on digital currencies for a long time and he's extremely
trusted because he a charismatic leader type of thing. Yeah, he is.
When he first encountered Bitcoin, he was like, cool.
Yes.
But I was concerned about the privacy implications because he's a pretty
hardcore cyber bunk. My Gut, it's like worlds upon worlds are opening for us.
Cypherpunks yeah. She said,
this is a group of people that care deeply about how to make the Internet more
private food privacy is a human right and that it's a necessary condition for
the exercise of a free choice of morality and of political participation and uh,
everything that's of intimacy, everything that's most important as humans.
So this whole thing with bitcoin and the privacy problem.
Yeah,
right up his alley.
So I went out of my way,
studied the bitcoin source code and contributed some suggestions and yes,
I immediately started fantasizing about what could be better.
So then he being like the privacy security Cypherpunk Guru,
he becomes the leader of something called c cash,
z cash and z cash. Really its main, um,
contribution to this ecosystem is privacy.
So there's this thing called a zero knowledge proof. Okay.
And it's a mathematical invention that mathematicians had come up with.
It requires something called the Z snark to be baked into the protocol.
I asked hours of questions and it got me into a conversation about circles and
graphs in the shape of numbers and shape of what I need is the shape of what's
of possibility.
What I came away with was that it allows you to prove that something is true
without revealing anything about the thing you're trying to prove is true.
Wow. You just honestly need to, I just want you to take that and run.
This is where computer science and mathematics start to overlap into wizardry
here.
All you need to know is that z cash promises to give you decentralization with
this like buffet of privacy,
but
z cash has its own flaw and unfortunate vulnerability in the math.
In order to create the currency of z cash,
you have to first create a number,
certain enormous number and then you use that number to do a bunch of math and
then like
boom,
you have the currency,
but it all starts with this number.
This key problem with that is
in this system, in this system,
if somebody got a hold of the private key,
they could counter Fitzy cash coins,
counterfeit money. Just make new coins,
millions and millions and millions of new coins out of thin air.
That's a really big problem when you have a uh,
anonymous currency cause no one would ever know. Nope.
Bitcoin since it's a public ledger,
you can actually see if there's any funny business going on.
That's actually why they keep it open, right?
The lack of privacy in Bitcoin is a security measure
year. No one would ever know.
So the challenge is how do you get people to buy into a system that has this
like major vulnerability I'll be at just right at the very beginning.
There's this one moment where you know you have to trust people in a way that's
completely existentially defining of the currency.
So this is what Zuke goes up against. How do I,
if I want super privacy, which he does,
how do I generate this number in such a way that no one steals it,
not me, not anyone else.
And how do I prove to all of the people that might want to use the cash later
than in this tiny little window of of creation?
Nothing untoward has happened that,
that the number has never been tampered with. That humanize,
I've never been laid upon it. You know,
that the entire creation of this system remains pure.
If this is very much like an immaculate conception, you're like, no,
humans can have sex to make this baby, but there needs to be a baby.
But we almost have to examine the act of sex to make sure that there was no
physical contact cause it like that. That's so good. Okay,
so here we are.
[inaudible]
Zuko decides
we'll have a ceremony.
Oh,
most securable sophisticated cryptographic ceremony that's ever been performed.
Wow. Okay.
[inaudible]
here's the thing. While it's trivial to make your own currency,
it is not trivial to, um, inspire trust.
That's what money is,
is the agreement between people to use it and to honor that sort of social
contract and the creation of value.
To me that's like alchemy. Um, and it's a moment of creation.
[inaudible]
I think I'm walking down the street near you, Molly.
Greenpoint and I get a text message on signal, a private messenger app,
a from Zika that's like pay. We want you to,
we want you to be there and yeah.
You though excited we're chosen. Chosen. Yeah. And,
but did you even know what you were being invited to? No,
I had no idea, but I was like, I have to do this. I mean,
I cannot miss this. Even if z cash doesn't make it,
even if you know it collapses,
it seems like a historical,
no ma'am.
So Zuko basically said, just wait for our bat call.
So about two weeks later, the back call come to this, uh,
coffee store in boulder soap. Morgan gets on a flight to Denver,
rents a car to boulder and goes to the coffee shop.
Zhou goes there standing next to the Barista counter and actually he has a huge
paper map with him, spread out all over like the Barista's area.
He's like up in their grill. And then, uh, this other guy, nat showed up,
friend [inaudible] who, uh, was going to film it all. Was that,
was that for you? You wanted everything recorded? Yeah.
And it was to serve as a security mechanism and documentation for the public.
More on that in a second. Okay. Okay. Okay. They leave the coffee shop,
go over to Nance van. He mikes us both up. I told them they could make me up
and we're going to,
now we're going to turn it off all of our cell phones so that if there were any
hackers they would be able to track where we were physically.
I'm trying to think if I have to say goodbye to anyone. We were like, okay,
now we've got the van, we've got our cell phones turned off.
The next thing we needed to do were next. Yeah, we're going to,
the computer store was acquire a computer because like if there was some hacker
who was planning to steal the key, they could have,
you know already planted some malware or tracking device on Zucker's personal
laptop before we even started.
So we all piled into the van,
settle off here you start heading north ticket clean computer.
He's decided to go to Denver for this. Yeah,
but he doesn't want to use his phone. No. Hey, I can even use my paper man.
Because what if somebody is like tracking what is looking at,
let's go straight. Nat is doing much of his recording while he's driving.
That's where we think it is.
Do you have like a black Hoodie over you like Hezbollah style? No. No.
So they're driving for a little bit. When
all of a sudden they make this pit stop.
We were like, hey, there's a costume store. Perfect.
We're ready to go yet. Like okay, next stop looking for a wizard hat wizard hat.
Can I see your wizard hat section?
So they walked through this big costume store. Past witches hats, Tiaras.
What is the wizard hat you settled on? Oh, it was a Gandalf hat. Yanoff hat.
Yeah. I love the Gandalf hat. Ah, I think it's good. That is appropriate.
The greatest wizard of all. Yeah, it's definitely a winter. Thanks. Yeah. Great.
And then back to the mission at Hand Sans Denver Computer.
We drove down using our paper map with their cell phones off to the computer
store. They get there. I would walk in. Oh yeah.
This is the place you a little computer shop and you know a side by side
comparison of two different ones. You minutes later. Yup.
I want this one because you could get this computer and at that point the
computer is sacred.
It's called [inaudible] 6,700 which hence forth is given a new name.
It's called the compute node. And why is it sacred? Well,
because this is the computer that will hold the secret number,
the number that will give birth to an entirely new currency.
So, all right, thank you very well. You know, got back in the van,
got back to boulder and drove to an area that had hotels that we do have.
Where's this hotel?
And we're going around to like the hotels in boulder this way and they're all
full.
I don't know if they have lunch in their hotel room or they don't have an either
that connection. So then we go to another hotel, like that hotel ended another,
she wasn't clear on the notion of ether like seven o'clock at night.
Oh, what's the plan here?
The idea was if you don't know what you're going to do,
then they don't know what they're going to do.
So this is actually a security measure.
Like if you're totally in the dark about what you're doing, then some hackers,
they can't, they can't mountain attack. It's foolproof. Yeah. But
okay. A ventrally millennium has rooms and it has ethernet.
They find a hotel. Oh my gosh. She even went and double checked.
Zuko actually has nat booked the hotel room for two nights?
You want me to come with you? Yep. Do you have a key? Well,
y'all check into one room. Brown floor. It's not particularly fancy.
Couple Tales, you know, you got your two beds, then they set up.
We're a well organized machine. They totally transformed the place in general.
I'm not going to help out. They gave me a bed to chill out on.
You couldn't concentrate on, on careful observing. Okay.
So what we did was we stripped the room of all of the lamps and the telephone.
Everything on all counters gets shoved somewhere. All of that stuff.
Bearded away into the closet or the bath tub. And what are you doing?
In addition, we, oh, I'm going to plug in the TV.
Didn't want like the television for example,
which could be remotely controlled by an adversary. So they unplug it,
slide it under one of the meds, good by GV. You know what another reason is?
I hate TVs. Television is the worst.
Then they grabbed the table where they're going to set up the compute node.
You want to explain again while you're keeping it away from the wall,
pull that out a ways. Oh,
there's a teeny tiny chance that a team of spies rented the room next door and
set up a giant antenna on the other side of this wall.
This is like the dopest attack that Sukkot is planning against called side
channel attacks.
That's a method by which you could use an antenna or like a really high tech
microphone to figure out what a computer is doing.
For example, with some crazy microphone,
you could listen into the computers processor. If you heard something like,
okay,
oh, that's a Diffie Hellman key exchange or
ah,
well yeah,
this is obviously figuring out the full four zero nine six bit RSA decryption
key
or
oh, I, hey, that's the new babes video or whatever, so all right,
so please don't put anything on this desk from here on out.
It's pulled away from the wall about, I dunno, five feet,
just in case there's somebody set up next door and then started loading in all
the cameras and equipment, battery packs, junk food.
But then there was also a whole security camera set up.
One cool one really cool thing about these security cameras is that they don't
have a radio for security cameras,
which word from the 80s before security cameras came with Wifi,
which means we had to buy antique security cameras and they're night vision
security cameras.
And they set those up so that you could see the other cameras from the first
camera.
So you could sell that new did just snuck in there and like tampered with one of
the cameras during the process either.
And this security camera set up was, uh,
one of the key points in trying to create what Morgan was talking about earlier,
this alchemy, faith, trust, whatever.
So the security mechanism, this was,
this was going to catch any shenanigans
and then Zuko was going to post this security footage to the internet. So, uh,
experts, security experts could scan it and make up their minds.
Could the ceremony be trusted?
Hold on. Where are you going to sleep tonight? I mean
we could all camp and sleep anywhere. So we set all that stuff up.
It's nine o'clock now at 10 o'clock. Yeah, it was late.
And um,
I took the computer that we use the so-called compute node and that from that
moment forward I kept that thing like within arms reach for 48 hours or so.
Oh my God.
It was a little bit exhausting trying to be paranoid and it is exhausting trying
to be paranoid. Yeah. Like I slept with it that night. Um, in my bed.
He kept my, kept my arm around it.
No
good night. Sweet prints and flights of angels. Sing knee today. Rest
[inaudible] [inaudible]
coming up.
A rude awakening.
This is Enrique Romero from the border town Laredo, Texas.
Radiolab is supported in part by the offered Peace Sloan Foundation,
enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world.
More information aboutSloan@wwwdotsloan.org.
Hi, I'm Abby Jacobson and you may know me from my fifth TV show, broad city.
But before that I went to art school. And why am I telling you that? Well,
it's because I have a podcast baby about art.
It's called a piece of work. It's a collab between me, w NYC studios and Moma.
I'll talk art with some of my friends like Questlove, Tavi, Gevinson,
and RuPaul, and we'll consult some experts and learn some incredible things.
Listen to a piece of work with Abby Jacobson, wherever you get your podcasts.
Molly radio lab, back to boulder.
Sorry, I can't open the door. That would be helping you.
So it's the next morning, Saturday morning.
Zuko sits down at his personal computer and he starts making all these
hello video check calls go right.
He calls up a guy in d c Hey Moses,
the guy in Texas who sound like Tom Hardy also. Oh,
that's pretty cool. Florida. Okay. Really appreciate your help. Slovenia.
Yes. Good job. Pit boss, another guy in California,
and then there was this mysterious one, K for recess ready?
That was so only referred to as February's and didn't know where he was.
I didn't find out until afterwards that he was actually driving from Vancouver
across
British Columbia who are all these guys.
So for Zuko it's, it's very unacceptable.
He wants to take as much of the trust.
You got to trust me out of it as possible. And that's what he tried to do.
So even though Zuko is gonna record all this footage,
put it up online later, someone who's going to be watching that could be like,
this was a trick. It's all smoke and mirrors. It's like stage magic. I'm like,
sure. You say you recorded everything,
but maybe you manipulated with the footage.
Maybe you didn't even set the cameras up the way you said you did it. So,
so what to go decided to do is get in touch with all these guys all over the
world and try and decentralize this trust.
So there were six stations each with their own compute nodes,
security cameras set up ready to help Zuko make this big random number,
the private key.
So each of the six stations was actually creating one piece of this key.
That way, there'll be no one person that makes the entire key.
It'll just be these little pieces that actually won't ever come in contact with
one another. The idea was nobody will actually have the key itself.
Hope this works. So everyone's got their compute node powered on.
And then
diagnostics complete presenter. When you're ready to begin the ceremony,
the ceremony begins. Okay. Now this is it's top secret part.
There's this, this special box. Yeah. We have to make sure that nobody can, uh,
guess or read this secret. Zuko closes the blinds.
And so I'm going to cover my keyboard with this special box.
So I took a cardboard box that one of the computers had come in and sawed it in
half so that it was a half of a cardboard box.
He put it over the keyboard of the compute node.
Yeah. Hold on. [inaudible] they're ready.
And then I slid my hands under the cardboard box and then
he starts punching in all these random letters and numbers into the compute
node. Just like pound on that. Just like black cat walking across the computer.
Okay. Yep. And once he's done,
I think we're done with the cardboard box.
It served its purpose to know we can auction it on Ebay.
What the compute node does is it takes all those random characters and it
combines it with more random characters that are generated inside the computer
until finally it creates a part of the key
and each of the other five participants had to do the same thing.
DC made their piece of the key. Florida, Texas, Slovenia,
Canada. Okay,
so you've got one key broken into six pieces and the next step is to get all of
those pieces to work together to create one thing, which is z cash.
And you want to do this in such a way that those pieces never touch each other,
that they remain hidden so that no person could ever get their hands on the
power of the whole key. Whew. Yeah.
So thank God there's convoluted math to save the day.
I think it's a good time to just say what was happening three to one. So
first things first, the guy in California gets on the horn,
the stations are Andrew. He gives everyone basically like the batting order,
and then
he sends a message called the go message to station one
station, one guy, and he's compute, no, do some math on his piece of the key.
Just finish his compute node,
spits out a number and then it burns it onto DVD. Why DVD?
Because all the guys at these stations have ripped out the Wifi and their
compute node because we don't want the hacker to be able to hack into the
compute node. This, by the way, has a pretty cool name. It's called air gapped.
You have a protective field basically around the computer that holds the secret
a field of. Anyway,
once the computer is done burning to this DVD,
the guide station one takes it and walks it to another computer,
uploads it to the Internet. Okay, great. And then the guide station to this
Guy Peter van Valkenberg.
So what happens is the software I run on my connected computer downloads,
that little answer puts it onto DVD.
I take the DVD out of the connected computer, walk across the air gap,
if you will. Then the compute node takes that little answer,
combines it with Peter's piece of a key, and then
math so knows that computing. Again,
the compute node keeps Peter's piece of the key.
His secret spits out the new answer, a bigger answer,
and then I write on a different DVD.
That new answer takes it out of the compute node,
brings it back across the air gap. The networked computer uploads his answer.
Then station three grabs it, combines it with their key,
gets a little bit more of an answer.
Then station for your node gets to do its thing, same thing,
DVD across the air gap,
combine it with their piece of the key like serious math,
and then you get a little bit more of the answer and just rinse, wash,
repeat station five, six, back to the top of the order.
And throughout this entire process,
the individual shards of the key are kept separate and secret.
Yet together they're doing the math.
It's getting closer and closer and closer to the final key that will launch z
cash. Was there a like a, a Tinder in the air?
No, I mean it really,
it's Dick DDD DDT
cards. I brought juggling balls. Cool.
I can juggle three balls. That's what I brought it
because the thing is every one of those math steps took about an hour,
the list and they had to do like three full rotations through this order.
Oh Hey. Somebody told Moses.
So most of the weekend was just kind of sitting around waiting and waiting.
Anyone
told Moses? Yeah. Um, so yeah,
we're hanging out. Yeah, my computer just finish. Oh, good to know.
Uh, Zuko has brought along some pork rinds
and sour cream, but he's dipping, he's dipping pork runs and the sour cream.
Cool. I'm going to get our coffee also
and napping,
which is the only sleeping that's happened. Like there's like, you know,
an hour here,
hour there.
And as the hours roll by, things are going really well.
People are getting their math done, they're passing along these answers.
They're getting closer to having their key win.
Maybe halfway into the process,
things get strange.
They were each lying in their beds, just kind of chilling out.
Morgan was just waking, Zuko was playing on a tablet and then,
oh well I growed too.
Oh, there's work to do back to work.
So Zuko gets up and he starts talking when, which is,
uh, my voice echoing back at me. His feedback,
feedback loop started. You?
No, like going beep, beep, beep, beep beep.
Oh, it's like a what in Congress noise. Make it stop.
I'm muting all my, my eggs. I don't know where it's feeding back from.
What was this one? If he like turns off the mic. Uh,
and so I was like, okay.
And he sits down at the Google hangout computer with that
a tester? Yes sir.
This echo comes back and if you look at the video you see,
he like just freezes
[inaudible]
and then just turns his head to the left looking off camera.
Why do we have a play out over there now?
At this point,
everyone in the room just sort of falls silent and is looking around. Yeah.
I start like pinpointing it to like the part of the room that has the security
cameras. Monitor,
test, test. Where's this coming from? Test. Test.
I started listening to that and I'm like, I think it's coming from over here.
But again, whoa. Stopped. And he said, uh, wait, wait a minute.
What? What is playing out over there?
Test, test. And
I looked in the direction of Oregon's bed and then I turn around,
I pick up my phone, it's my phone
and the echo is coming out of my speaker. It's coming out of your phone.
It's coming out of my phone.
Why is your phone playing out? Yeah,
if you don't stop. No, don't mess with it. I want to see what's going on.
It's playing out from this way.
He Zeroes in on this mic that's on the corner of the computer that's doing the
Google hangouts. Did you connect your phone to this hangout?
He leans over to that [inaudible] starts fiddling with it.
What
it's doing from this way? Yeah. Yeah.
So is there a way he stands? He sits,
it knows I coming from the lake. It's coming from,
it's not coming from this week.
It's coming from the Google hangout because I just muted it and software now
it's gone. So my voice, Google hangout. Okay.
Let's hear Peter's voice here.
Yeah.
I want to test audio coming from you say some stuff.
Testing, testing all would match in the aid of that country. Yeah.
Yeah.
And then I think Sukkot says something like
Warren Gay. Why is your phone playing audio from our Google hangout?
Why is our chat coming through your phone? Oh wait,
so the audio coming out of her phone is not originating from in the room.
It's,
it's somehow the Google hangout chat that's coming through phone.
Yes. It's so weird. Very weird.
It was like your cat had just turned into a monster or had just started talking
to you or like just turned on you.
So I'm kneeling on the bed with it and I look at it and I think that's when I
just like threw it, threw it on the bed
revulsion. So can you turn on the screen?
He picks up the phone from the end of her bed and hands it to her and is like,
can you pull up the screen? What all, what all apps are running on this phone?
I don't run any apps.
Is that doing video? Yeah,
I'm recording at this point.
The cameras have like swiveled so they're focused on the phone. Okay.
Um, I don't know. Should we throw it in the river?
No.
Can you, is this android? Yup. How do you,
can you like get a list of apps running like by swiping down from the top or
something?
[inaudible]
I think. I don't know. I'm sorry. I don't,
how about that? I don't use this. If you swipe down, there's that thing,
this next to the thing here. What about that thing?
Yeah. Wait. Yes, but just give me a second. Give me a second.
What's running here?
I don't see a hangouts app
running. I def, well,
I didn't test run a hangouts. I think it stops here. Listen to it.
Test, test, test.
It's up, hasn't it? Suddenly the phone stops doing the weird thing.
It was doing the freaky audio play out. Then it went away. It went away.
Which feels hackery eh? Yeah,
like the hackers have been had and they just realized it. Yeah.
That's what I think that there wasn't a tagger and they screwed up and
accidentally turned on the speaker. Now I feel paranoid.
Yeah. It's weird. Creepy. No, this isn't just like,
I don't know.
I've been, what do you mean hacked? What kind of hacked have they been? Oh,
you find out that the private messages similar has been had access to them.
Um, or that people have been, uh,
sending messages spoofed to be from you to your friends or colleagues.
Okay. I've never had that happen.
Just kinda horrible. [inaudible]
so eventually they just decided to turn off her phone.
Now it becomes a more civilized conversation of, um, what are we gonna do?
And then Zuko said, yeah,
to me, would you like to donate your phone to science? Oh,
that's like, I'd rather donate my body.
Uh,
no. Well, what would it take for you to do it at your phone to science?
Oh, like in the current state of it right now. Without,
without like, yeah, that's a problem. Leaving my, no way.
Like that has so much of my work on it and my life.
I just think that, uh, well I don't think I have to justify it.
Why?
That's right. You don't have to justify it,
but I mean,
do you have, you have pictures and some pictures but not much.
I put myself in your position. I would have been like, I feel
okay, take it. I don't know. I start, I,
but you were very immediately like the opposite. Yeah. That's a no to me.
Why? To me, my responsibility is not just to myself, you know,
privacy is a shared resource is a she or it's a share.
It's something we share with each other. Um, the responsibilities.
I will say this is one of the first stories where I get my,
what privacy and data protection like means me.
Like I remember when Morgan was telling me this story thinking if someone had
hacked into Morgan's phone, how long had they been hacked in for?
And I talked to Morgan all the time. Like, oh, weird, I was kind of hacked,
you know? And then it's like, who else did you talk to? It was your tie. Oh,
your dad was Kinda hacked. Oh, oh crap.
You exchanged those text messages that weren't on signal.
Half person was kind of hacked. And then suddenly it just dawned on me, Duh.
Like her privacy isn't just hers.
The things that are on my phone that are private or not only private for me,
they're private for, for anyone I was talking to and,
and I almost feel like I don't even have a right to give over that phone if I
haven't talked to the people that, that, that would be exposing,
like that's not fair. Like sometimes when people insist on privacy,
it can feel selfish. Yeah. But then you realize like, no,
like if one person doesn't insist on privacy,
kind of like a chink in the armor and like suddenly we're all vulnerable,
uh, for about an hour.
Morgan and Zuko go back and forth about what to do with her phone,
but they don't really reach a conclusion.
I feel I need to walk around.
Does anything can happen if I go take a little walk? Yeah.
You're not going to miss much. Uh, it's, uh, it's planned or scheduled.
Oh,
I'm just hesitating for no good reason.
I can't think of any reason for you not to take a walk.
I'm just Kinda freaked out. Okay. Yeah. Okay. You say stay here.
What? I said be safe out there. Enjoy.
Do you think I meant do you think I'm a secret agent? No,
I wasn't thinking that. Okay. I was thinking I was afraid for you. Oh,
I'm not afraid for me. Yeah, I'm not either. I was just feeling that way.
Okay. I'm going to take a walk cause I feel really claustrophobic. Good. Enjoy.
So then I had to decide what shall we do?
Shall we abort a ceremony? Shall we,
um, focus our attention on some sort of investigation of Morgan's phone?
What shall we do?
No.
Okay, here's the decision. Here's what we're going to do. Uh, get, get more,
gets phone out of. And otherwise
no change. He figured if these people have hacked into Morgan's phone,
we have so many security measures in place that we can keep going and we'll
figure this out later. So basically what happens is like
Morgan comes back from our walk. Okay,
we're worry they still have another full day of the ceremony left.
Where does insert a blank DVD to burn disc keys in the press center.
Okay.
And then it gets to a point where they finally have the final key.
Okay, I'm pairing up the compute node, everybody, it's a big step.
And is there a high five a okay. It's unplugged.
No. Oh, we're done.
Ah, and then
to sort of cap it off, the last step is, so I mean if you would,
to use the angle grinder,
you can anchor everybody takes their a compute node and circle your lead.
Destroy that.
Because in the case that the computer holds like a ghostie fingerprint of that
like original piece of the key,
they just want it gone. We saw
Peter into pieces I missed,
smashed the pieces with a hammer and dropped the crushed pieces into a giant
bonfire.
And that was that.
And now they were sort of at the moment where they're like, okay, well we,
we actually did the technological like thing,
which was we created the system and now the bigger question was did they create
the alchemy that they needed to inspire trust?
Like where all the protocols and the video footage and all that stuff.
Was it all enough? Especially now that they have this phone thing happens,
especially now that they have the phone thing and they're like, dude,
we do what we needed to do to show the world that they want to buy into this
thing.
So five days after the ceremony ended in a currency began
to an insane fanfare. Really?
It was crazy.
Z cash is a cryptocurrency built on Bitcoin's code base that is dedicated to
protecting your privacy till, oh gosh, you're gonna have to look.
But I think it went up to like $4,000 a z one z cash coin.
It is the first digital currency to combine you and that is the bitcoin high at
the time is like around 1400 so that's insane.
So if the goal on some level at the very beginning of this conversation was to
instead fire
the community to then use it, it seems like it has, it has done that. Yeah. Yes.
Do people
continue to point back at this phone moment and wonder and speculate
some yeah. People have. People want me to,
they want to know like how it resolves and how does it resolve? I mean,
did you give him your phone?
So what actually happened was we went to this bonfire,
uh, and then by the end of it Dave, everybody was sort of rushing off.
I was rushing to the, to the airport and just like gave my phone to Sukkot
and was like, we'll talk about it. I trust you.
Don't do anything that I haven't agreed to. No. So you ended in the, in the,
in the, in the spirit of the whole endeavor in some way. Yup. Huh.
[inaudible]
Molly Webster
get to tell you that we have to do it again.
Well you have to go through all of this again
so we have to do it again because we're upgrading the cryptography in z cash.
Okay.
God Man, what have you started?
We're going to do new ceremony, deploy new approved cryptography.
We keep thinking of improvements. We want to make [inaudible] inventions
[inaudible]
this piece was produced by Molly Webster and Matt Kielty,
the Denver ceremony station recordings were created by media maker Nathaniel
Kramer. Thanks Nat. And also thanks to his assistant Daniel Cooper. And lastly,
very special thanks to Morgan pack, her reporting on the ceremony.
Obviously with sort of the anchor for our piece,
and you can find her article at [inaudible] spectrum.
We will link you to it from radio lab.org. Okay.
We will be back and Robert will be back with me, uh, in a couple of weeks.
I'm Jad ABIM Ryan, I'm Molly Webster. Thanks for listening.